# CS470FinalReflection
Joanne Soto
10/21/2023
CS470 Final Reflection
https://youtu.be/vQvhaWfnJbo  <----LINK to Presentation on YouTube

	The MEAN stack build in CS470 had went a step further from local to serverless build.  The skills attained in MEAN stack I thought was plenty with the knowledge of creating a server remotely from my desktop computer and understanding the fundamentals of a RESTful API and/or the Loopback service to see how the backend is functioning.  Then see how well the frontend and the backend communicate together is helpful and tactful in securing the code and it’s functioning.  The dynamics of the BIG data databases that I got the opportunity to learn about and differentiate between the two, DynamoDB and MongoDB.  Both, great databases to store and retrieve data and I understand the aspect of why they are very useful in building an online information retrieval system.  It not only secures the information and reduces costs for space, but it also reduces the costs of retrieval of information and minimizes how much data and what data needs to be retrieved.  As a developer, it is easy to update the website by piece and doesn’t affect the entire API or slow down the deployment.  This enables functionality, availability, security, and updates to be smoother. Then moving all of this to a cloud server was great to learn and look forward to being able to work with sophisticated building blocks in deployment.
	What I gained from this class was confidence that I can troubleshoot my own buildings and the tools to know where to begin.  The primary basis is getting all the correct versions of what is needed and required for the building blocks, this case it was the Node.js and the Node manager that would work with DynamoDB and Angular.  Then building and watching how connecting the backend to the frontend becomes a reality.  My strength as a developer would be perseverance and problem solving.  I don’t just give up but lay down the facts of what is needed and what I have and adjust accordingly.  I will put in the work that is required and do prefer to work smarter not harder but when it is new territory it is hard to navigate that system until I get enough knowledge under my belt with a better understanding how to implement that.  So, the struggle can be real, but it has helped me become a better critical thinker.  I enjoy learning and appreciate the challenges.  I also enjoy working in teams.  I’m a team player and enjoy learning or teaching my teammates.
This class has given me a great appreciation for AWS Amazon services and what they have implemented for cloud services.  The infrastructure and IAM policies and affordability of the service is outstanding and can be used for anyone.  They really did a great job in targeting just about everyone and their online needs for service.  The principle of elasticity is genius and fits no matter what, big or small.  You pay for what you need and use.  That is a flexible and scalable service.  I have not seen anyone else do this yet.  That is impressionable. 
